Citing Sources in MLA Style.
I'm writing a research paper in English, and I'm required to cite my sources using MLA style. It seems like a lot of extra work. Why is it so important?
Photo of a male student holding a stack of books.
When you write a research paper, you use information from many different sources. Other writers have probably used some of the same sources to support their own arguments. In this way, the use of sources is like having a conversation among a community of professionals. Citing their sources is how professionals give credit for the ideas of others and add their own ideas to the conversation. The MLA style is just one of several systems for citing sources.
Photos of a 
Text on screen fades in and out in sync with same words in the narration
Photo of a female teacher, holding a manilla folder.
Well, I guess citing my sources does seem important. But do I have to provide a source for everything I write?
It's likely that only some of the information in your paper requires a citation. If you include a direct quote or information that is not widely known, you definitely need to cite the source. You'll also need to give credit for any diagrams, pictures, or statistics you include. You do not have to provide a citation for anything that is common knowledge, and certainly not for your own ideas and opinions.
That makes sense. It's like giving credit where credit is due. But how do I use MLA style to credit the proper sources?
Using MLA style, you credit sources by completing two steps. First, make an in-text citation anywhere you included borrowed information in your paper. This can be a parenthetical citation that identifies the source, often at the end of a sentence, or a signal phrase that gives information about the source within the sentence itself.  
Text reads: Growing up, her life included little entertainment other than storytelling, thus nourishing the tremendous talent that later made her famous (Kirk 17). According to book critic Andrew Losowsky, that talent may carry her as far into the realm of adult literature as it did with her first seven novels, all aimed at children. Image of a portion of a research paper. The text is double-spaced, and the first lines of all paragraphs are indented 1/2 inch. All text is blurred except the text on screen. The parenthetical citation is highlighted in sync with narration.
Next, include a "Works Cited" page at the end of your paper. There the reader can look up the author's name and find even more information about the source. With this information, your reader should have no problem locating any material of interest.
Text reads: Works Cited

Kirk, Connie Ann. J. K. Rowling: A Biography (Unauthorized Edition). Greenwood, 2003. Print.
Losowsky, Andrew."'The Casual Vacancy' Review: J. K. Rowling's Long-Awaited New Book".Huffington Post. 27 Sept. 2012. Web. 11 Nov. 2012. Sample Works Cited page. Title at the top should be centered and say "Works Cited". The image scrolls down until reaching the 2 works cited entries as noted in the Text On Screen. The Works Cited page is double spaced and each entry has a hanging indent.





